1.What is the difference between jdk ,jre, jvm;
jdk-java development kit, (jre+development tools)
jre-java runtime environment , (jvm+set of libraries)
jvm-java virtual machine, (bytecode interpreter, used to execute bytecode)


2.what are the principles of oops?
    1.Encapsulation-binding/wrapping data and methods into a single unit
                   -data hiding and data security(private dataMembers -> getter and setter methods)
    2.Abstraction-hiding implementation and showing only functionality
                 -abstract keyword and interface
    3.Inheritance-acquiring/inherit properties and methods from one class to another
                  -extends and implements keyword
    4.Polymorphism-the ability of an object to take on many forms

3.Can i override abstract methods?
yes, then we can provide implementation -- method overriding

4.can i override static method?
No, we can't override static method--method hiding /method shadowing

5.can i override final method?
No

6.can i override non static method?
Yes

7.can i override a private method?
no, private visibility/accessibility is in same class

8.can i write non static member inside interface;
yes, but it will consider as public static final member (by default added by compiler)


9.what is the difference between abstract class and interface
abstract class-abstract method+ complete/concrete methods
              -constructor for reinitialization
              -data members - static , non static , public , private , protected , final, default
interface-abstract methods(java 7)
         -no constructor
         -data members- static , public , final (will act like constants)
         -from java 8 static method and default methods are allowed

10.types of Inheritance
     1.single level inheritance
     2.multilevel inheritance
     3.hierarchical inheritance
     4.multiple inheritance(can't achieve by using class -ambiguity problem/diamond problem)
                           (can achieve by using interface)
     5.hybrid inheritance

11.what is the difference between super and this keyword?
    super-keyword refers to parent class object
        super() used to call parent class constructor from child class
        inheritance is mandatory
    this-keyword refers to current class object
        this() used to call another constructor of same class

12.What is  constructor?
  -constructor is a special method , used to create the object/instance 
   and assign values to non static variables
  -Types: 
        1.default constructor
        2.user defined constructor 
                1.parameterized constructor/argument constructor
                2.non-argument constructor/non- parameterized constructor

13.What is the difference between method and constructor?
method:  method name can be anything
      : return type can be anything(void , primitive , non primitive)
constructor: constructor name should be same as class name
      : constructor doesn't have return type

14.can i declare constructor with public access modifier?yes
15.can i declare constructor with private access modifier?
 yes , but it will avoid object creation from outside the class
 it will act like singleton class
16.can i declare constructor with protected access modifier? yes


17.what is the difference between int and Integer?
int- primitive data type
       default value :0
Integer-non primitive data type/ wrapper class of int
       default value :null


18.how many primitive data types are there?
      8->byte , short , int , long , float , double , char , boolean

19.how many non primitive data types are there?
      String , array, class , interface , enum, annotation , Collections
    
20.How to convert primitive data types to object data types?
  Boxing /AutoBoxing  using Wrapper class
21.How to convert object data types to primitive data types?
  UnBoxing/AutoUnBoxing
22.What is Parsing
    converting string to primitive data type

23.What is typeCasting:
    converting one data type to another data type
    1.primitive type casting 
                         1.Widening/implicit  -converts small to large 
                         2.Narrowing/explicit -converts large to small
    2.non primitive type casting
                        1.UpCasting/widening/implicit - converts child to parent
                        2.DownCasting/narrowing/explicit - converts parent to child

24.What is return ?
     -return keyword is used to return the value from the method
     -return keyword is used to terminate the method
     -return keyword must be the last statement in a method
     -more than one return statement is not allowed in a method

25.what is break and continue?
    break-keyword is used to terminate the program
    continue-keyword is used to skip the current iteration and move to next iteration

26.What is Identifier?
    -it is a name given to a variable , method , class , interface
26.What is a literal?
    -the values stored in a variable is called literal

27.What is a variable?
    -it is a container to store data
    types:
    Based on Scope:
              1.local variable
              2.Static variable
              3.instance variable/Non static variable
    Based on Datatype:
              1.primitive variable
              2.non primitive variable

28.Can i use local variable without assigning ?
No
        public void m1(){
            int a;
            System.out.println(a);//CTE
        }
29.Can i use global variable without assigning ?
yes

        public class Task1{
            int a;//global variable
            public void m1(){
                System.out.println(a);//0
            }
        }


30. Can i call static members inside a non static method?
Yes

 -can call static members with the help of className

31. Can i call non static members inside a static method?
No (directly)

-i need to call non static member inside a static method
   then we can do with object creation


32.What is operator and how many operators are there?
operator: symbol which is used to perform some operation on operands
operators:
    1.arithmetic operators
    2.relational operators
    3.logical operators
    4.assignment operators
    5.bitwise operators
    6.conditional operators
    7.increment/decrement operators
    8.access operator (.)

33.What is conditional statements?and types?
conditional statements: it is used to execute the block of code based on condition
types:
        1.if statement
        2.if-else statement
        3.if-else-if ladder
        4.switch statement
        5.nested if statement

34.What is loop statement and its types?
loop statement: it is used to execute the block of code multiple times based on condition
types:
        1.while loop
        2.do-while loop
        3.for loop
        4.for-each loop
        5.nested loop

35.what is the difference between while and do-while loop?
while loop: mim no.of iterations =0
             first check the condition then execute the block of code
do-while loop: min no.of iterations =1
            first execute the block of code then check the condition

36. what is the difference between for and for-each loop?
for:initialization,condition,updation are required
    iterates in an range
    
foreach:initialization,condition,updation are not required
       :iterates in a collection/array

37.What is an array?
array: it is a collection of similar data types
     : we can manipulate and access based on index , and starting index is 0
     : it is a fixed size, array is an immutable object
     : it is a non primitive data type

limitations of array:
    1.it is a fixed size
    2.it is immutable(can't be modified)
    3.it is a collection of similar data types

38.What is String ?
String : it is a collection of characters
       : annotated with ""
       : it is a non primitive data type
       : it is a immutable object

39.what is the difference between StringBuilder and StringBuffer?
StringBuilder: it is a mutable object
             : it is not thread safe
             : it is fast
             : it is not synchronized
             : it won't supports multithreading(single thread)
StringBuffer: it is a mutable object
            : it is  thread safe
            : it is slower than  StringBuilder but faster than String
            : it is synchronized
            : it supported multithreading

            
40.what is the difference between method overloading and method overriding?
method overloading:
                  : it will occur at compile time(compile time binding/ static binding)
                  : Inheritance is not  mandatory 
                  : having multiple methods with same name and different parameters
method overriding:
                 : it will occur at run time(runtime binding/ dynamic binding)
                 : Inheritance is mandatory
                 : changing the implementation of parent class method in child class